README.md, before:

# Ankiconnect Android

Ankiconnect Android allows you to utilize the standard Anki mining workflow on Android devices like phones and eReaders.
Create Anki cards using [Yomichan](https://foosoft.net/projects/yomichan/) on [Kiwi Browser](https://kiwibrowser.com/) and add them straight into your Anki deck!
Mine on the go in the same way as you mine on your desktop pc.
Forvo audio is now supported!


Ankiconnect Android is a from scratch unofficial reimplementation of the [desktop Ankiconnect extension](https://github.com/FooSoft/anki-connect) and [desktop Forvo Server extension](https://github.com/jamesnicolas/yomichan-forvo-server).
It reimplements the core APIs used by Yomichan to work with [Ankidroid](https://github.com/ankidroid/Anki-Android/).

## Instructions
Here's how to set everything up from scratch (if you've already got Yomichan working then skip to step 5):

1. Install [Kiwi Browser](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.kiwibrowser.browser) and [Ankidroid](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ichi2.anki)
2. Install Ankiconnect Android - [Download](https://github.com/KamWithK/AnkiconnectAndroid/releases)
3. Start the Ankiconnect Android app, accept the permissions and hit start service
4. Set up the [Yomichan extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/yomichan/ogmnaimimemjmbakcfefmnahgdfhfami) in Kiwi Browser to your liking:

    * `Import` 1+ dictionaries by clicking `Configure installed and enabled dictionaries` and then `Import` under `Dictionaries` section ([external resources](https://learnjapanese.moe/resources/#dictionaries))
    * **`Scan modifier key` under the `Scanning` section should be "No Key" (unless using mouse/keyboard, advanced options contains more config options)**
    * `Scan delay` under the `Scanning` section can feel laggy and so can be set to `0`

5. Set up Yomichan for sentence mining:
    * Toggle `Enable Anki integration` on, under `Anki`
    * Click on `Configure Anki card format` and choose the deck, model and field/values you desire
    * **Ensure `Check for card duplicates` has been disabled** (only visible under `Advanced` options)
    * For further custamisation you can write/modify the script under `Configure Anki card templates`
6. Set up Forvo audio
    * Click on `Configure audio playback sources` and under the `Audio` section
    * Click the `Add` button (top right corner)
    * Select `Custom URL (JSON)` and copy paste `http://localhost:8765/?term={term}&reading={reading}` into the `URL` box (NOTE: This is NOT the same URL as from your PC, the port is different)

***Sections and Advanced options visible via the blue menu icon on the bottom right of the screen***

> Easier Yomichan setup: If you import settings from a computer, ensure that the bolded steps are still followed

## Limitations
Because Ankiconnect Android is a small project with a limited scope, not all API queries/cases are implemented/considered.
The only currently known breaking example is when duplicate card checks are enabled.
Features like this with limited scope and which are easy to disable/avoid have been ignored for now (even though enabled in Yomichan by default).

Commit message:

Common errors and their solutions explained

README.md, after:

# Ankiconnect Android

Ankiconnect Android allows you to utilize the standard Anki mining workflow on Android devices like phones and eReaders.
Create Anki cards using [Yomichan](https://foosoft.net/projects/yomichan/) on [Kiwi Browser](https://kiwibrowser.com/) and add them straight into your Anki deck!
Mine on the go in the same way as you mine on your desktop pc.
Forvo audio is now supported!


Ankiconnect Android is a from scratch unofficial reimplementation of the [desktop Ankiconnect extension](https://github.com/FooSoft/anki-connect) and [desktop Forvo Server extension](https://github.com/jamesnicolas/yomichan-forvo-server).
It reimplements the core APIs used by Yomichan to work with [Ankidroid](https://github.com/ankidroid/Anki-Android/).

## Instructions
Here's how to set everything up from scratch (if you've already got Yomichan working then skip to step 5):

1. Install [Kiwi Browser](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.kiwibrowser.browser) and [Ankidroid](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ichi2.anki)
2. Install Ankiconnect Android - [Download](https://github.com/KamWithK/AnkiconnectAndroid/releases)
3. Start the Ankiconnect Android app, accept the permissions and hit start service
4. Set up the [Yomichan extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/yomichan/ogmnaimimemjmbakcfefmnahgdfhfami) in Kiwi Browser to your liking:

    * `Import` 1+ dictionaries by clicking `Configure installed and enabled dictionaries` and then `Import` under `Dictionaries` section ([external resources](https://learnjapanese.moe/resources/#dictionaries))
    * **`Scan modifier key` under the `Scanning` section should be "No Key" (unless using mouse/keyboard, advanced options contains more config options)**
    * `Scan delay` under the `Scanning` section can feel laggy and so can be set to `0`

5. Set up Yomichan for sentence mining:
    * Toggle `Enable Anki integration` on, under `Anki`
    * Click on `Configure Anki card format` and choose the deck, model and field/values you desire
    * **Ensure `Check for card duplicates` has been disabled** (only visible under `Advanced` options)
    * For further custamisation you can write/modify the script under `Configure Anki card templates`
6. Set up Forvo audio
    * Click on `Configure audio playback sources` and under the `Audio` section
    * Click the `Add` button (top right corner)
    * Select `Custom URL (JSON)` and copy paste `http://localhost:8765/?term={term}&reading={reading}` into the `URL` box (NOTE: This is NOT the same URL as from your PC, the port is different)

***Sections and Advanced options visible via the blue menu icon on the bottom right of the screen***

> Easier Yomichan setup: If you import settings from a computer, ensure that the bolded steps are still followed

## Common Errors and Solutions
1. Yomichan shows it's connected but I can't see the green plus arrow to create cards - By default Yomichan has duplicate checks enabled, go into the advanced settings and disable it
2. Forvo audio won't load - Make sure you've copy pasted the EXACT URL from above (any small changes will likely cause it to stop working, the URL is different from the one on your PC)
3. App crashes - Each version of Android has many API changes to handle, these can sometimes cause crashes, the newest release contains an Android 12 fix

If you've gone through the instructions and are still having trouble, feel free to create an issue here on GitHub or @/dm me on Discord.

## Limitations
Because Ankiconnect Android is a small project with a limited scope, not all API queries/cases are implemented/considered.
The only currently known breaking example is when duplicate card checks are enabled.
Features like this with limited scope and which are easy to disable/avoid have been ignored for now (even though enabled in Yomichan by default).
